Welcome back everyone in this lecture.
We're going to talk about images and some pie pie by itself can actually directly open a j peg or PFG
extension file.
Instead we need to use it in conjunction with what's known as the pillow or P.L. library which stands
for Python imaging library.
Let's go ahead and open up a notebook and then take a look at how this all works.
All right.
So to begin we're going to start by importing them pi as MP.
And then we'll also say import map plot live thought pipe plot as Piazzi map plot lib is a library that's
actually going to allow us to plot out and display images inside of the notebook.
Now in order to display things inside of the notebook we also need to write out percent sign map plot
live in line then go ahead and run that.
Keep in mind as a quick note the actual latest versions of Jupiter and Jupiter the lab don't require
this map published in line but I'm leaving it here just in case because it doesn't do any harm.
And sometimes there's bugs.
If you don't have that actual line so that allows display plots in line in the actual note book now
it's time to actually try to open up an image with some pie or two that we first need to open it using
the python imaging library.
So say from p i l in all caps.
Import image.
And those eyes capitalize there.
So this is an image function that allows us to open up images and actually then we're going to be able
to transform this image into an array that numpad can understand.
So I will say pick is equal to image the open and then you can just provide the file path for any image.
Now if you downloaded the course notes you'll notice that there's a data folder here and there is a
file called 00 that puppy thought JPEG in the data folder of our actual notes.
So that's what I'm going to provide the file path there so I will say data 0 0 bash puppy JPEG.
You need to make sure that you actually are providing the right path.
So in my case this data folder is actually in the same location as this notebook.
But if your one location deeper you may need to say thought forward slash So it really all depends on
where this note book is actually located in conjunction to your actual JPEG file that you're trying
to open.
If you are unsure just go ahead and pass and the whole file path which is going to be something like
C users.
Then your username and so on.
So just keep that in mind.
Otherwise you'll get an error.
So I'm going to now collapse this
so loops.
Looks like I got the air right now.
I need to undo that forward slash.
There we go.
So now I'm ready to go and if I just take a look at this pic and do shift enter I get back this pic
of this adorable puppy.
Now let's go ahead and take a look at what type of object this is.
So far to say type pick it's a right now Python imaging library or P.L. J pig image plugin.
It's a jpeg image file.
So right now it's a jpeg which means that I can't actually deal with it.
But all we can do is transform it into an array.
So we're going to say pick underscore a r r as Ezekial to p dot as array and then passen that pick.
And now if I take a look at the type of pick array.
It's now a PI array and in fact let's take a look at its shape so cheap right now is 13:00 by 1950 pixels
with three color channels.
And if I say peel T Dot in show it's going to allow us to show this array as an image while passen Pickering
run that and then I get to see the actual array laid out.
So here's the image and this Kilty show it's kind of a special function that's specially designed to
show images that are transformed to as arrays.
Now notice that we get these grids so I can see here how it's 13:00 pixels length and about 1950 and
with.
And there's three channels here.
The red the green and the blue.
So let's actually access one of these channels by itself so we can see what's going on here.
So I to say pick red is equal to pick a r and I'm going to make a copy of it.
So previously in the non-pilot show we showed you how we can make copies.
Now if I actually just display this red image I get back right now the same image as I did before.
Which makes sense because it was just a copy.
However let's try the following.
We're going to try to zero out the contribution from the green and the blue channels.
So we're going to do is if we're to take a look at this array it's three channels right now.
One 3800.
By 1950 array for read one 3300 by 1950 for blue and another one for green.
In our case it's going to be R.G. B or red green blue.
So how do we actually zero out these values.
Well what I'm going to do is say pick red.
Remember the shape of this is 3800 by 1950.
Essentially three arrays of 13:00 by 1950 I'm going to say pick red and then I'm going to grab all the
rows and all the columns in the green channel.
So the way this is formatted Is it goes red channel then green channel and then blue channel.
So each of these shapes one stands for red one stands for green and one stands for blue.
So if I take a look at just this which means everything in that 13:00 everything in 1950.
But just one that actually stands for the green channel because our would be zero so let's go ahead
and display this.
I'll say peel T.
M. show.
And you'll notice something funny happened here.
You'll notice now the coloring seems very strange and that's because if we take a look at these values
they're now all between 0 and 255 and Matt live by default will show this using what's known as a very
this color scale.
So when we ran a show on this.
So if I say peel T-Dog him show it took those values and applied some sort of color scale and the default
Like I said is this.
If you actually check out the map documentation on their color codes they have perceptually uniform
sequential color mappings.
And this is this one that goes from Purple all the way to yellow and it's actually specially designed
for people who are colorblind.
And these are all actually designed for people that are colorblind.
However this actually isn't really an accurate representation of what this particular array represents.
In fact it's probably more accurate if we were to say See map grey and then run this.
This stands for Color Mapping and we choose grey which essentially just says show this in greyscale.
So this right now that we're showing right here this is the red channel values.
They're all between 0 and 255.
Remember there's two more of these.
One for green and one for blue.
So check it out.
This is the one for green and then let's check out the one for Blue.
You'll notice that they're all a little slightly different.
So for example so if we take a closer look at the red channel number 255 that means a full pure red
0 will then mean know read pure black.
So that means we're actually viewing this in grayscale the closer to whites.
That means more red for this particular image.
So if we take a look at the ears here they tend to be pretty white which means there's high values of
red there.
And if you were to scroll back and take a look at the actual dog's ears you notice that his ears actually
do contain quite a bit of red.
It's kind of an orange color.
But if we take a look at the other colors such as the color mapping for green or color mapping for Blue.
You'll notice his ears appear now quite dark.
That means there's not a whole lot of green in his ears.
There's a little bit but there's definitely not a whole lot of blue.
So again here we're displaying the three different channels as grayscale.
So this is red because it's the first one we index at zero.
This is green.
The second one we know that one.
And this is blue.
We indexed at two.
So again take a look back at the slides of what is an image to better understand what these three images
are actually showing you because it's kind of hard to understand without the full context of the what
is an image lecture.
OK.
Now back to the task at hand.
Let's imagine that I actually made all these values zero which means I said the following.
I'm going to grab my pick read and I'm going to say everything in the green channel.
If we just take a look at this we have all these values from 0 to 255.
We're going to set these all equal to zero and to zero them out.
So now I've completely gotten rid of the green channel.
So let's see what our picture now looks like.
Well say guilty and show pick red and then that is that it looks a lot stranger.
In fact it looks a lot more purple ish.
And that's because the only two colors that are left are blue and red which together make purple.
So now we're basically seeing everything without the color green.
Now let's take this a step further and remove the contribution from blue.
So we're going to do here again say pick red and I'm going to grab all the pixels.
It's not going to grab them in the index to channel which is the blue channel because it goes red green
blue and orange going set that to zero.
And now when I see pink red again I've completely gotten rid of blue essentially now there's no more
purple.
And we're seeing the red channel completely.
Something to keep in mind is this pick red.
It's shape is still three channels across.
So a lot of times students are a bit confused as to what's the difference between pick red here versus
the pick read that we were seeing earlier when we actually just grabbed the one and that's because we're
seeing all three channels at once instead of just one channel.
So if I were to take the shape of this guy this is just 13:00 by 1950.
So this is just one single channel and if I do the same for the other ones the shape doesn't change
when I say pick red without any indexing.
It still has information for all three channels except cleverly we went ahead and zeroed out the green
channel as well as the blue channel which is why this picture only shows up with the red.
OK.
So I know that was a bit complicated because of the indexing of all but the actual idea is quite simple.
Essentially we know the image has three channels a red one agree on it and a blue one.
We changed all the values in the green channel and the blue channel.
Those two layers.
We made them all zero which means we basically told the image hey there's no longer any contribution
from green and also no longer any contribution from blue.
So then when the image or Kilty was asked hey can you show me what this adjusted image looks like.
It could only show what was in the existing red channel which is why everything's now colored red that's
different than what we did before which was color mapping a single channel to grayscale.
OK.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Kewney forums but definitely do another Watching of
the what is an image.
To further understand what's going on here.
Thanks.
And we'll see you at the next lecture.